## The Changes of the LibRec Library

**Remarks:** If you'd like to make contributes to LibRec, please contact me without any hesitations.  

## librec-v1.4 (schedule)
* LLORMA, CoFiSet, Tensor recommendation models

## librec-v1.3 (under development)
* New recommenders added
  * WBPR, UserCluster, LDA, URP, BUCM, GPLSA
  * External (used to evaluate the performance of rating predictions generated by extenal recomemnders)
  * New interface `GraphicRecommender` is added for probabilistic graphic models
* LibRec commands & configuration
  * `--dataset-split train-ratio [validation-ratio]`: split the input data set into three parts: training, validation [optional] and test subsets. 
  * Item recommendation results can be outputed
  * Configuration entries in `librec.conf` are greatly improved
* Class improvements
  * Java annotation `Configuration` is added to annotate general configuration of recommender interfaces
  * Java annotation `AddConfiguration` is added to annotate additional configuration of specific algorithms
  * Sparse Matrix
    * It will always keep both CCS and CRS structures for simpicity
    * New method `reshape` added to remove zero entries and reshape dimensions
    * New method `matString` added to print in matrix-like format, useful for debug purpose
  * A few utility functions are added to DenseMatrix, DenseVector
  * New measures added for `rating prediction`
    * `rMAE` and `rRMSE` measure the MAE and RMSE after rounding prediction to the closest rating levels. 
    * `MPE` measures the percentage of predictions which differ from the actual rating values 
  * `LineConfiger` is added to encapsulate the line of parameter with options 

## librec-v1.2 (milestone version)
* Cache employed
  * rowCache(), columnCache(), rowColumnsCache(), columnRowsCache() methods added to SparseMatrix
  * employing cache technique can greatly improve the speed of recommendation
  * new config item "guava.cache.spec" used to specify cache configuration
* Support more configurations
  * Rating predictions can be outputed now (is.prediction.out), thanks to [disc5](https://github.com/disc5)'s comment. 
  * Data conversion from real-valued ratings to binary ones (val.binary.threshold)
  * A number of [command line arguments](http://www.librec.net/tutorial.html#cmd): 
    * -c configFile: set alternative configuration files,  *java -jar librec.jar -c yourConfigFile.conf*; 
    * -v/--version: print out version information
    * --dataset-spec: print out dataset specifications
* New recommendation methods implemented:
  * SLIM, FISM, SBPR, GBPR, TrustSVD, timeSVD++
* Interface for context-aware recommender systems added
  * Context, UserContext, ItemContext, RatingContext  -- Data Class
  * ContextRecommender -- Generic Interface
* Others
  * Codes refactored & improved
    * SortMap/SortList performance improved, dependent library updated
    * Rename BRPMF to BPR
    * Utility methods (e.g., data standardization) added to data structure
  * bugs fixed
    * critical bug: set isCCSUsed = true (see SparseMatrix, copyCCS() method)
    * thanks to the comments of [albe91](https://github.com/albe91), Victoria Lin

## librec-v1.1

* New recommendation methods implemented: 
  * WRMF, AR, PD, RankALS, SoRec, SoReg, RSTE  
* Support a number of testing views of the testing set:
  * all: the ratings of all users are used. 
  * cold-start: the ratings of cold-start users who rated less than 5 items (in the training set) are used.
* Support two new validation methods:
  * Given N: For each user, N ratings will be preserved as training set, while the rest are used as test set. 
  * Given ratio: Similarly as Given N, a ratio of users' ratings will be used for training and others for testing. 
  * val.ratio: Its meaning is changed to the ratio of data for training, rather than the ratio of data for testing.
* Data Structure:
  * DiagMatrix: diagonal matrix added
  * DataConvertor: is added to convert data files from one format to our supporting formats. 
  * A number of enhancement functions are added to matrix, vector class
* Package Refactor:
  * Package *librec.core* is split into two packages: 
    * librec.rating: algorithms for rating predictions; supporting rating-based item ranking. 
    * librec.ranking: algorithms for item ranking. 
* Others
  * Code improved
  * Some bugs fixed

## librec-v1.0

* A set of recommendations have been implemented. 
